---
autogenerated: true
title: BigDataServer
breadcrumb: BigDataServer
layout: page
author: test author
categories: 
description: test description
---

\_\_TOC\_\_

## Description

BigDataServer is a minimalistic HTTP server that serves XML/HDF5
datasets to the [BigDataViewer](BigDataViewer "wikilink") Fiji plugin
for visualisation.

The BigDataServer is running on a remote machine which hosts the
XML/HDF5 datasets. A client running Fiji connects to the server, chooses
the dataset that the server offers and then the data are efficiently
delivered to the BigDataViewer. In this way, it is possible to
seamlessly navigate very large datasets that reside in a remote
location.

## Installing and running the BigDataServer

BigDataServer is packaged as a single "batteries-included" jar file with
all required dependencies. It is run from the command line using Java 7
or higher. Copy
[bigdataserver.jar](http://fly.mpi-cbg.de/~pietzsch/bigdataserver.jar)
onto your webserver (probably running Linux). Run the BigDataServer
using this command:

`$ java -Xmx4G -jar bigdataserver.jar PARAMETERS`

The `-Xmx4G` option gives the server 4GB of RAM. The server is built on
the same caching architecture as BigDataViewer and does not require a
lot of RAM to run (1GB or less should be sufficient). However, running
with more RAM means that more of the data can be cached in RAM (on the
server). This will improve performance, because client requests can be
handled rapidly from cached data.

Running the above command without parameters will print this help:

`$ java -Xmx4G -jar bigdataserver.jar`  
`usage: BigDataServer [OPTIONS] [NAME XML] ...`  
  
`Serves one or more XML/HDF5 datasets for remote access over HTTP.`  
`Provide (NAME XML) pairs on the command line or in a dataset file, where`  
`NAME is the name under which the dataset should be made accessible and XML`  
`is the path to the XML file of the dataset.`  
`-d `<FILE>`        Dataset file: A plain text file specifying one dataset`  
`                 per line. Each line is formatted as "NAME `<TAB>` XML".`  
`-p `<PORT>`        Listening port.`  
`                 (default: 8080)`  
`-s `<HOSTNAME>`    Hostname of the server.`  
`                 (default: localhost)`  
`-t `<DIRECTORY>`   Directory to store thumbnails. (new temporary directory`  
`                 by default.)`

A typical command to start the server will look like this:

`$ java -Xmx4G -jar bigdataserver.jar -d datasets.txt -s fly.mpi-cbg.de -p 8081`  
`2015-02-14 14:02:52.696:`<INFO::main>`: Logging initialized @421ms`  
`...`  
`2015-02-14 14:03:12.316:`<INFO:oejs.Server:main>`: Started @20046ms`

where *dataset.txt* is a TAB delimited list of names and XML paths to
the locally accessible datasets (comprising the XML and HDF5 files). For
example *dataset.txt* could look like this:

`drosophila_original_test   /mnt/export/hdf5_dataset.xml`  
`drosophila_registered_test /mnt/export/registered_dataset.xml`

The server will keep running until you cancel it with  or close the
shell. To start the server in the background run it in a screen session:

`$ screen`  
`$ java -Xmx4G -jar bigdataserver.jar -d datasets.txt`  
`2015-02-14 14:02:52.696:`<INFO::main>`: Logging initialized @421ms`  
`...`  
`2015-02-14 14:03:12.316:`<INFO:oejs.Server:main>`: Started @20046ms`

and detach the screen with  .

To add new datasets edit the *dataset.txt* and add new XML paths. After
that you have to currently restart the server. (Re-attach the screen
session with `screen -r`, cancel the server with  and repeat the above).

Note that the server port needs to be open.

## Connecting to a running BigDataServer from Fiji

In order to connect to a BigDataServer from Fiji and view the data go to
. You will be presented with the following dialog box:

![bdv-browse-bigdataserver-1.png](bdv-browse-bigdataserver-1.png
"bdv-browse-bigdataserver-1.png")

Enter the URL (including port) of a BigDataServer. For example, the
Drosophila timelapse dataset described in
[BigDataViewer\_Example\_Datasets\#Remote\_HDF5](BigDataViewer_Example_Datasets#Remote_HDF5 "wikilink")
is available through this address: <http://fly.mpi-cbg.de:8081>. Click
OK. The following window will pop up showing a list of datasets offered
by the server:

![bdv-browse-bigdataserver-2.png](bdv-browse-bigdataserver-2.png
"bdv-browse-bigdataserver-2.png")

In the example, the server offers only a single dataset called
*Drosophila*. Double-clicking on a dataset in the list will launch it in
the BigDataViewer.

![bdv-bdv-start.png](bdv-bdv-start.png "bdv-bdv-start.png")
\_\_TOC\_\_

## Description

BigDataServer is a minimalistic HTTP server that serves XML/HDF5
datasets to the [BigDataViewer](BigDataViewer "wikilink") Fiji plugin
for visualisation.

The BigDataServer is running on a remote machine which hosts the
XML/HDF5 datasets. A client running Fiji connects to the server, chooses
the dataset that the server offers and then the data are efficiently
delivered to the BigDataViewer. In this way, it is possible to
seamlessly navigate very large datasets that reside in a remote
location.

## Installing and running the BigDataServer

BigDataServer is packaged as a single "batteries-included" jar file with
all required dependencies. It is run from the command line using Java 7
or higher. Copy
[bigdataserver.jar](http://fly.mpi-cbg.de/~pietzsch/bigdataserver.jar)
onto your webserver (probably running Linux). Run the BigDataServer
using this command:

`$ java -Xmx4G -jar bigdataserver.jar PARAMETERS`

The `-Xmx4G` option gives the server 4GB of RAM. The server is built on
the same caching architecture as BigDataViewer and does not require a
lot of RAM to run (1GB or less should be sufficient). However, running
with more RAM means that more of the data can be cached in RAM (on the
server). This will improve performance, because client requests can be
handled rapidly from cached data.

Running the above command without parameters will print this help:

`$ java -Xmx4G -jar bigdataserver.jar`  
`usage: BigDataServer [OPTIONS] [NAME XML] ...`  
  
`Serves one or more XML/HDF5 datasets for remote access over HTTP.`  
`Provide (NAME XML) pairs on the command line or in a dataset file, where`  
`NAME is the name under which the dataset should be made accessible and XML`  
`is the path to the XML file of the dataset.`  
`-d `<FILE>`        Dataset file: A plain text file specifying one dataset`  
`                 per line. Each line is formatted as "NAME `<TAB>` XML".`  
`-p `<PORT>`        Listening port.`  
`                 (default: 8080)`  
`-s `<HOSTNAME>`    Hostname of the server.`  
`                 (default: localhost)`  
`-t `<DIRECTORY>`   Directory to store thumbnails. (new temporary directory`  
`                 by default.)`

A typical command to start the server will look like this:

`$ java -Xmx4G -jar bigdataserver.jar -d datasets.txt -s fly.mpi-cbg.de -p 8081`  
`2015-02-14 14:02:52.696:`<INFO::main>`: Logging initialized @421ms`  
`...`  
`2015-02-14 14:03:12.316:`<INFO:oejs.Server:main>`: Started @20046ms`

where *dataset.txt* is a TAB delimited list of names and XML paths to
the locally accessible datasets (comprising the XML and HDF5 files). For
example *dataset.txt* could look like this:

`drosophila_original_test   /mnt/export/hdf5_dataset.xml`  
`drosophila_registered_test /mnt/export/registered_dataset.xml`

The server will keep running until you cancel it with  or close the
shell. To start the server in the background run it in a screen session:

`$ screen`  
`$ java -Xmx4G -jar bigdataserver.jar -d datasets.txt`  
`2015-02-14 14:02:52.696:`<INFO::main>`: Logging initialized @421ms`  
`...`  
`2015-02-14 14:03:12.316:`<INFO:oejs.Server:main>`: Started @20046ms`

and detach the screen with  .

To add new datasets edit the *dataset.txt* and add new XML paths. After
that you have to currently restart the server. (Re-attach the screen
session with `screen -r`, cancel the server with  and repeat the above).

Note that the server port needs to be open.

## Connecting to a running BigDataServer from Fiji

In order to connect to a BigDataServer from Fiji and view the data go to
. You will be presented with the following dialog box:

![bdv-browse-bigdataserver-1.png](bdv-browse-bigdataserver-1.png
"bdv-browse-bigdataserver-1.png")

Enter the URL (including port) of a BigDataServer. For example, the
Drosophila timelapse dataset described in
[BigDataViewer\_Example\_Datasets\#Remote\_HDF5](BigDataViewer_Example_Datasets#Remote_HDF5 "wikilink")
is available through this address: <http://fly.mpi-cbg.de:8081>. Click
OK. The following window will pop up showing a list of datasets offered
by the server:

![bdv-browse-bigdataserver-2.png](bdv-browse-bigdataserver-2.png
"bdv-browse-bigdataserver-2.png")

In the example, the server offers only a single dataset called
*Drosophila*. Double-clicking on a dataset in the list will launch it in
the BigDataViewer.

![bdv-bdv-start.png](bdv-bdv-start.png "bdv-bdv-start.png")
