---
autogenerated: true
title: Diadem Challenge Data
breadcrumb: Diadem Challenge Data
layout: page
author: test author
categories: Tutorials
description: test description
---

This page describes how to visualize the various data sets provided as
part of the [Diadem Challenge](http://www.diademchallenge.org/) in Fiji,
and in particular viewing the traced neurons with [Simple Neurite
Tracer](Simple_Neurite_Tracer "wikilink"). The most important point
about this is that the SWC files distributed as part of the challenge
all use co-ordinates that are image-coordinates rather than world
co-ordinates. (This isn't how I interpret [the paper that describes the
SWC format](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0165-0270\(98\)00091-0), but in
practice different software uses different conventions, so one has to
deal with both.) This means that you should always select the "ignore
image calibration" option when importing the SWC file into Simple
Neurite Tracer. The other key point is that the image data are
distributed with each slice in a separate TIFF file and don't specify
the slice separation in those files. So, after importing the sequence
you will need to correct the calibration according to information on the
Diadem challenge website or they will look odd when rendered in 3D. I
describe these steps in more detail below.

If you have any comments or suggestions relating to this page, please
email <em>mark-diadem</em> at <em>longair</em> dot <em>net</em>.

\_\_TOC\_\_

## Olfactory Project Neurons

This data set [is described
here](http://www.diademchallenge.org/olfactory_projection_fibers_readme.html).
I will go through loading the example "OP\_1". Each image stack in this
data set is distributed as a directory of TIFF files, one per slice. To
load such a stack, go to  and select the file "1.tif". You should be
shown a dialog like this:

![Diadem\_Challenge\_Data-1.png](Diadem_Challenge_Data-1.png
"Diadem_Challenge_Data-1.png")

These default options should be fine - as you can see from the dialog it
will have worked out that there are 60 image slices in that directory to
be imported. If you click OK you should get a normal image stack:

![Diadem\_Challenge\_Data-2.png](Diadem_Challenge_Data-2.png
"Diadem_Challenge_Data-2.png")

Unfortunately these TIFF files do not have the separation of these
slices encoded correctly, so you should correct this manually. If you go
to  you will see that the pixel width, pixel height and voxel depth are
all set to the same value (0.3296485). The [page with information about
the data
set](http://www.diademchallenge.org/olfactory_projection_fibers_readme.html)
tells us that the z-separation should be three times the x and y
separation, so correct the voxel depth to 3 times 0.3296485, like this:

![Diadem\_Challenge\_Data-4.png](Diadem_Challenge_Data-4.png
"Diadem_Challenge_Data-4.png")

... and then press "OK". To save yourself from having to re-enter this
calibration information, and to be able to open the stack from the
"Recent Files" menu, etc. I think it's helpful to now save this stack as
a single TIFF. So, I would go to "" and save this as OP\_1.tif in the
directory above the one with individual slices.

Now start the tracing plugin by going to . If you keep the default
options, you should see a display like this:

![Diadem\_Challenge\_Data-6.png](Diadem_Challenge_Data-6.png
"Diadem_Challenge_Data-6.png")

To load the SWC file with the supplied traces, click on "Load Traces /
SWC File" and navigate to OP\_1.swc. When you have selected this file,
you will see the following options dialog:

![Diadem\_Challenge\_Data-7.png](Diadem_Challenge_Data-7.png
"Diadem_Challenge_Data-7.png")

The important setting here is that you should have the "Ignore
calibration" option selected. You should not apply an offset or scale
for this data set. When you click OK you should see that the traces are
overlayed in the stack window and in the 3D viewer:

![Diadem\_Challenge\_Data-8.png](Diadem_Challenge_Data-8.png
"Diadem_Challenge_Data-8.png")

You may wish at this point to adjust the viewing options in the tracer's
dialog to examine the tracings in detail:

![Diadem\_Challenge\_Data-9.png](Diadem_Challenge_Data-9.png
"Diadem_Challenge_Data-9.png")

## Diadem Neocortical Layer 6 Axons

[The Neocortical Layer 6
Axons](http://www.diademchallenge.org/neocortical_layer_6_axons_readme.html)
data set is based on a set of image stacks that need to be stitched
together. The key point here is that you must use the offsets supplied
by the Diadem challenge rather than allowing Fiji to stitch the
automatically - the stitching will be subtly different.

Firstly, however, it will help to load each image sequence and save out
the stack to a single TIFF image stack file. For each of the 6
directories, do the following: go to  and select the first file in the
directory (01.tif). After opening with the default options, save this
out into the parent directory with the following names:

`  directory 01 -> Tile_01_02.tif`  
`  directory 02 -> Tile_02_02.tif`  
`  directory 03 -> Tile_03_02.tif`  
`  directory 04 -> Tile_03_01.tif`  
`  directory 05 -> Tile_02_01.tif`  
`  directory 06 -> Tile_01_01.tif`

Now create a text file in the same directory called
TileConfiguration.txt with the following contents, but changing the
directory path to whereever these files are on your computer:

`   # Define the number of dimensions we are working on`  
`   dim = 3`  
`   `  
`   # Define the image coordinates`  
`   /home/mark/diadem-examples/Neocortical/Tile_01_01.tif; ; (0.0, 0.0, 0.0)`  
`   /home/mark/diadem-examples/Neocortical/Tile_02_01.tif; ; (468.0, -14.0, -1.0)`  
`   /home/mark/diadem-examples/Neocortical/Tile_03_01.tif; ; (924.0, 3.0, -19.0)`  
`   /home/mark/diadem-examples/Neocortical/Tile_01_02.tif; ; (73.0, 507.0, -5.0)`  
`   /home/mark/diadem-examples/Neocortical/Tile_02_02.tif; ; (526.0, 484.0, 11.0)`  
`   /home/mark/diadem-examples/Neocortical/Tile_03_02.tif; ; (952.0, 462.0, -21.0)`

These offset values are taken from [the official page describing the
data
set](http://www.diademchallenge.org/neocortical_layer_6_axons_readme.html).

Now you can stitch together the images using these offsets by going to ,
browsing to the TileConfiguration.txt file you've just created and
making sure you uncheck the box "compute overlap". It should look
something like this:

![Diadem\_Neocortical\_Layer\_6\_Axons-1.png](Diadem_Neocortical_Layer_6_Axons-1.png
"Diadem_Neocortical_Layer_6_Axons-1.png")

After clicking OK, this should stitch together all those stacks into one
huge stack. (If there are problems, you should see details of them in
the log window.)

![Diadem\_Neocortical\_Layer\_6\_Axons-2.png](Diadem_Neocortical_Layer_6_Axons-2.png
"Diadem_Neocortical_Layer_6_Axons-2.png")

Next, you should correct the Z-calibration of the stitched stack. The
data set page tells us that the z separation is 3.03 pixels, so open up 
and set the Voxel Depth to 3.03 times the Pixel Width:

![Diadem\_Neocortical\_Layer\_6\_Axons-3.png](Diadem_Neocortical_Layer_6_Axons-3.png
"Diadem_Neocortical_Layer_6_Axons-3.png")

Now you should save the stitched stack, and work from that from now on.
(Since the stitched stack isn't very large (156MB) one wonders why this
wasn't distributed already stitched.) Save the stack with "".

To load the SWC files, start up the tracer with . You should see
something like this after it has started, with the stack rendered in the
3D Viewer:

![Diadem\_Neocortical\_Layer\_6\_Axons-4.png](Diadem_Neocortical_Layer_6_Axons-4.png
"Diadem_Neocortical_Layer_6_Axons-4.png")

You might have noticed that the offsets used in stitching above had some
negative Y and Z values. This means that when you load in the SWC files,
you will need to apply an offset to compensate for this. (0,0,0) in the
stitched image will be at (0,-14,-21) in the space of the tracings, so
when you click on "Import traces / SWC file" and have chosen (for
example) NC\_14.swc, you should expand the "Apply offset to SWC file
co-ordinates" option and fill in these values:

![Diadem\_Neocortical\_Layer\_6\_Axons-7.png](Diadem_Neocortical_Layer_6_Axons-7.png
"Diadem_Neocortical_Layer_6_Axons-7.png")

Then the traces should load in the correct position with those offsets:

![Diadem\_Neocortical\_Layer\_6\_Axons-6.png](Diadem_Neocortical_Layer_6_Axons-6.png
"Diadem_Neocortical_Layer_6_Axons-6.png")

## Cerebellar Climbing Fibers

We will go through loading in the CF\_1 image stack from the [Cerebellar
Climbing
Fibers](http://www.diademchallenge.org/cerebellar_climbing_fibers_readme.html)
data set. The raw data for this image is stored in RGB and about 3.4GB
in size, so for convenience you may wish to load this as a virtual stack
(i.e. one where the slices are loaded from disk as required), convert it
to 8-bit and resave the file first. In any case, I would recommend using
a machine with 2GB of RAM (at the very least) to deal with these files.

To load the files as a virtual stack, go to "" and select the first file
in the sequence, "01.tif". You will be presented with the import dialog,
in which you should make sure that "Use virtual stack" is selected.

![Diadem\_Cerebellar-1.png](Diadem_Cerebellar-1.png
"Diadem_Cerebellar-1.png")

(Note that the number of slices in the directory (34) was automatically
set.) You should now be able to browse through the stack:

![Diadem\_Cerebellar-2.png](Diadem_Cerebellar-2.png
"Diadem_Cerebellar-2.png")

After loading this you need to convert this to 8-bit. You can do this in
any number of ways, and if you're actively working on a tracing task
with this data you will probably want to do this in such a way that
picks out the brown coloured neuronal processes. However, a simple way
just for viewing purposes is to use the  option. (Another option is to
use .) This will produce results like this:

![Diadem\_Cerebellar-3.png](Diadem_Cerebellar-3.png
"Diadem_Cerebellar-3.png")

You can close the original virtual stack now.

It is a good idea to invert this image, since the 3D Viewer will make
the low values of the image more transparent, and Simple Neurite Tracer
assumes that neurons are brighter than their background. So, go to  and
select "Yes" in response to the question about whether to process all 34
images. The results should look like this:

![Diadem\_Cerebellar-4.png](Diadem_Cerebellar-4.png
"Diadem_Cerebellar-4.png")

Before saving this out as a single 862MB stack, it is a good idea to
correct the calibration of the image. The [data set web
page](http://www.diademchallenge.org/cerebellar_climbing_fibers_readme.html)
tells us that the separation between slices is 8.08 pixels. So, if you
bring up the  dialog, then you can correct the voxel depth to be 8.08
times the pixel width:

![Diadem\_Cerebellar-5.png](Diadem_Cerebellar-5.png
"Diadem_Cerebellar-5.png")

Now save this as a single TIFF stack called CF\_1.tif by going to "",
saving it in the directory above the one with the slices, to avoid
confusion.

You can now start the tracer with . This may take some time, since there
is a lot of data to load in to the 3D viewer. The result should look
like this:

![Diadem\_Cerebellar-6.png](Diadem_Cerebellar-6.png
"Diadem_Cerebellar-6.png")

You may wish to adjust the transparency in the 3D viewer by selecting
the image volume (left click on the image in the 3D viewer) and then
going to "":

![Diadem\_Cerebellar-7.png](Diadem_Cerebellar-7.png
"Diadem_Cerebellar-7.png")

Now, to load the traces click on "Load Traces / SWC File" and select
CF\_1.swc. You will be presented with an options box like this:

![Diadem\_Cerebellar-7b.png](Diadem_Cerebellar-7b.png
"Diadem_Cerebellar-7b.png")

Make sure that "Ignore calibration" is selected (as in that screenshot)
and that there is no offset or scale set. Once loaded you should be able
to see the traces as here:

![Diadem\_Cerebellar-8.png](Diadem_Cerebellar-8.png
"Diadem_Cerebellar-8.png")

## Hippocampal CA3 Interneuron

The [Hippocampal CA3
Interneuron](http://www.diademchallenge.org/hippocampal_ca3_Interneuron_readme.html)
data set is difficult to deal with, since even after converting the
stack to 8-bit values, it is still nearly 2GB in size.

As with the other stacks, you should load the image stack using  and
selecting the "Use virtual stack" option:

![Diadem\_Hippocampal\_CA3\_Interneuron-2.png](Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-2.png
"Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-2.png")

That should load in the image data:

![Diadem\_Hippocampal\_CA3\_Interneuron-3.png](Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-3.png
"Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-3.png")

Now convert it to 8-bit with . (The same comments as above regarding
converting to 8-bit apply here as well.)

![Diadem\_Hippocampal\_CA3\_Interneuron-4.png](Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-4.png
"Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-4.png")

... and invert the image with , saying "Yes" to the question about
whether to process all 110 slices:

![Diadem\_Hippocampal\_CA3\_Interneuron-5.png](Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-5.png
"Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-5.png")

Now set the voxel depth to 1.52 times the voxel width, as specified on
the [data set
page](http://www.diademchallenge.org/hippocampal_ca3_Interneuron_readme.html):

![Diadem\_Hippocampal\_CA3\_Interneuron-6.png](Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-6.png
"Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-6.png")

And then I would save this file as a TIFF stack (with ) so that you
don't have to go through these steps again. That will need about 2GB of
disk space, and will only work if your filesystem supports single files
of that size.

If you now start  with its default options you should (eventually\!) see
something like the following:

![Diadem\_Hippocampal\_CA3\_Interneuron-7.png](Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-7.png
"Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-7.png")

Then you can load the SWC files via "Load Traces / SWC file" with these
options:

![Diadem\_Hippocampal\_CA3\_Interneuron-8.png](Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-8.png
"Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-8.png")

(I've unchecked "Replace existing paths" for this data set, since it's
nice to load several SWC files into the tracer at once.) The results of
loading three of the reconstructions, for example, might look like this:

![Diadem\_Hippocampal\_CA3\_Interneuron-9.png](Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-9.png
"Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-9.png")

## Neuromuscular Projection Fibers

There are a number of caveats regarding these image data and
reconstructions which are [listed on its web
page](http://www.diademchallenge.org/neuromuscular_projection_fibers_readme.html).

These 152 image stacks are in total so large that stitching them
together and dealing with the stitched stack is not likely to be
helpful. Instead, I would suggest that you just stitch together those
images that you need to cover a particular SWC file. Since there are so
many input stacks, I've written a clojure script for Fiji to help
process these, which you can [view and download via
github](http://gist.github.com/508411). On running this script you will
be asked to select a directory - you should select the directory that
contains all of your unpacked image stack directories (probably called
"000", "001", etc.) For each of these directories it will then:

  - Import the sequence of slices
  - Correct the calibration so that the voxel depth is 3.04 times the
    pixel width
  - Write out each stack as a single TIFF stack (e.g. as well as the
    directory "000" you will also have "000.tif"

Finally, the script will output a TileConfiguration.txt file in the same
directory. Supposing one had vast amounts of RAM, this file could be
used unaltered with , as above. However, the file is still useful even
with modest amounts of RAM, since you can copy this file to a new name
and edit out all but a few of the images that are listed there. For
example, here are image stacks 000 to 007 stitched together:

![Neuromuscular-0-7-stitched.png](Neuromuscular-0-7-stitched.png
"Neuromuscular-0-7-stitched.png")

That script may be useful as a basis for a smarter selection of images
to stitch for particular reconstructions.

You should then be able to adjust the SWC import options in order to
import the reconstructions in the correct positions - you will need to
understand the translations described for the reconstructions [on the
web
page](http://www.diademchallenge.org/neuromuscular_projection_fibers_readme.html)
in order to get this right. (I haven't had time to do this accurately
myself yet.)

[Category:Tutorials](Category:Tutorials "wikilink")
This page describes how to visualize the various data sets provided as
part of the [Diadem Challenge](http://www.diademchallenge.org/) in Fiji,
and in particular viewing the traced neurons with [Simple Neurite
Tracer](Simple_Neurite_Tracer "wikilink"). The most important point
about this is that the SWC files distributed as part of the challenge
all use co-ordinates that are image-coordinates rather than world
co-ordinates. (This isn't how I interpret [the paper that describes the
SWC format](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0165-0270\(98\)00091-0), but in
practice different software uses different conventions, so one has to
deal with both.) This means that you should always select the "ignore
image calibration" option when importing the SWC file into Simple
Neurite Tracer. The other key point is that the image data are
distributed with each slice in a separate TIFF file and don't specify
the slice separation in those files. So, after importing the sequence
you will need to correct the calibration according to information on the
Diadem challenge website or they will look odd when rendered in 3D. I
describe these steps in more detail below.

If you have any comments or suggestions relating to this page, please
email <em>mark-diadem</em> at <em>longair</em> dot <em>net</em>.

\_\_TOC\_\_

## Olfactory Project Neurons

This data set [is described
here](http://www.diademchallenge.org/olfactory_projection_fibers_readme.html).
I will go through loading the example "OP\_1". Each image stack in this
data set is distributed as a directory of TIFF files, one per slice. To
load such a stack, go to  and select the file "1.tif". You should be
shown a dialog like this:

![Diadem\_Challenge\_Data-1.png](Diadem_Challenge_Data-1.png
"Diadem_Challenge_Data-1.png")

These default options should be fine - as you can see from the dialog it
will have worked out that there are 60 image slices in that directory to
be imported. If you click OK you should get a normal image stack:

![Diadem\_Challenge\_Data-2.png](Diadem_Challenge_Data-2.png
"Diadem_Challenge_Data-2.png")

Unfortunately these TIFF files do not have the separation of these
slices encoded correctly, so you should correct this manually. If you go
to  you will see that the pixel width, pixel height and voxel depth are
all set to the same value (0.3296485). The [page with information about
the data
set](http://www.diademchallenge.org/olfactory_projection_fibers_readme.html)
tells us that the z-separation should be three times the x and y
separation, so correct the voxel depth to 3 times 0.3296485, like this:

![Diadem\_Challenge\_Data-4.png](Diadem_Challenge_Data-4.png
"Diadem_Challenge_Data-4.png")

... and then press "OK". To save yourself from having to re-enter this
calibration information, and to be able to open the stack from the
"Recent Files" menu, etc. I think it's helpful to now save this stack as
a single TIFF. So, I would go to "" and save this as OP\_1.tif in the
directory above the one with individual slices.

Now start the tracing plugin by going to . If you keep the default
options, you should see a display like this:

![Diadem\_Challenge\_Data-6.png](Diadem_Challenge_Data-6.png
"Diadem_Challenge_Data-6.png")

To load the SWC file with the supplied traces, click on "Load Traces /
SWC File" and navigate to OP\_1.swc. When you have selected this file,
you will see the following options dialog:

![Diadem\_Challenge\_Data-7.png](Diadem_Challenge_Data-7.png
"Diadem_Challenge_Data-7.png")

The important setting here is that you should have the "Ignore
calibration" option selected. You should not apply an offset or scale
for this data set. When you click OK you should see that the traces are
overlayed in the stack window and in the 3D viewer:

![Diadem\_Challenge\_Data-8.png](Diadem_Challenge_Data-8.png
"Diadem_Challenge_Data-8.png")

You may wish at this point to adjust the viewing options in the tracer's
dialog to examine the tracings in detail:

![Diadem\_Challenge\_Data-9.png](Diadem_Challenge_Data-9.png
"Diadem_Challenge_Data-9.png")

## Diadem Neocortical Layer 6 Axons

[The Neocortical Layer 6
Axons](http://www.diademchallenge.org/neocortical_layer_6_axons_readme.html)
data set is based on a set of image stacks that need to be stitched
together. The key point here is that you must use the offsets supplied
by the Diadem challenge rather than allowing Fiji to stitch the
automatically - the stitching will be subtly different.

Firstly, however, it will help to load each image sequence and save out
the stack to a single TIFF image stack file. For each of the 6
directories, do the following: go to  and select the first file in the
directory (01.tif). After opening with the default options, save this
out into the parent directory with the following names:

`  directory 01 -> Tile_01_02.tif`  
`  directory 02 -> Tile_02_02.tif`  
`  directory 03 -> Tile_03_02.tif`  
`  directory 04 -> Tile_03_01.tif`  
`  directory 05 -> Tile_02_01.tif`  
`  directory 06 -> Tile_01_01.tif`

Now create a text file in the same directory called
TileConfiguration.txt with the following contents, but changing the
directory path to whereever these files are on your computer:

`   # Define the number of dimensions we are working on`  
`   dim = 3`  
`   `  
`   # Define the image coordinates`  
`   /home/mark/diadem-examples/Neocortical/Tile_01_01.tif; ; (0.0, 0.0, 0.0)`  
`   /home/mark/diadem-examples/Neocortical/Tile_02_01.tif; ; (468.0, -14.0, -1.0)`  
`   /home/mark/diadem-examples/Neocortical/Tile_03_01.tif; ; (924.0, 3.0, -19.0)`  
`   /home/mark/diadem-examples/Neocortical/Tile_01_02.tif; ; (73.0, 507.0, -5.0)`  
`   /home/mark/diadem-examples/Neocortical/Tile_02_02.tif; ; (526.0, 484.0, 11.0)`  
`   /home/mark/diadem-examples/Neocortical/Tile_03_02.tif; ; (952.0, 462.0, -21.0)`

These offset values are taken from [the official page describing the
data
set](http://www.diademchallenge.org/neocortical_layer_6_axons_readme.html).

Now you can stitch together the images using these offsets by going to ,
browsing to the TileConfiguration.txt file you've just created and
making sure you uncheck the box "compute overlap". It should look
something like this:

![Diadem\_Neocortical\_Layer\_6\_Axons-1.png](Diadem_Neocortical_Layer_6_Axons-1.png
"Diadem_Neocortical_Layer_6_Axons-1.png")

After clicking OK, this should stitch together all those stacks into one
huge stack. (If there are problems, you should see details of them in
the log window.)

![Diadem\_Neocortical\_Layer\_6\_Axons-2.png](Diadem_Neocortical_Layer_6_Axons-2.png
"Diadem_Neocortical_Layer_6_Axons-2.png")

Next, you should correct the Z-calibration of the stitched stack. The
data set page tells us that the z separation is 3.03 pixels, so open up 
and set the Voxel Depth to 3.03 times the Pixel Width:

![Diadem\_Neocortical\_Layer\_6\_Axons-3.png](Diadem_Neocortical_Layer_6_Axons-3.png
"Diadem_Neocortical_Layer_6_Axons-3.png")

Now you should save the stitched stack, and work from that from now on.
(Since the stitched stack isn't very large (156MB) one wonders why this
wasn't distributed already stitched.) Save the stack with "".

To load the SWC files, start up the tracer with . You should see
something like this after it has started, with the stack rendered in the
3D Viewer:

![Diadem\_Neocortical\_Layer\_6\_Axons-4.png](Diadem_Neocortical_Layer_6_Axons-4.png
"Diadem_Neocortical_Layer_6_Axons-4.png")

You might have noticed that the offsets used in stitching above had some
negative Y and Z values. This means that when you load in the SWC files,
you will need to apply an offset to compensate for this. (0,0,0) in the
stitched image will be at (0,-14,-21) in the space of the tracings, so
when you click on "Import traces / SWC file" and have chosen (for
example) NC\_14.swc, you should expand the "Apply offset to SWC file
co-ordinates" option and fill in these values:

![Diadem\_Neocortical\_Layer\_6\_Axons-7.png](Diadem_Neocortical_Layer_6_Axons-7.png
"Diadem_Neocortical_Layer_6_Axons-7.png")

Then the traces should load in the correct position with those offsets:

![Diadem\_Neocortical\_Layer\_6\_Axons-6.png](Diadem_Neocortical_Layer_6_Axons-6.png
"Diadem_Neocortical_Layer_6_Axons-6.png")

## Cerebellar Climbing Fibers

We will go through loading in the CF\_1 image stack from the [Cerebellar
Climbing
Fibers](http://www.diademchallenge.org/cerebellar_climbing_fibers_readme.html)
data set. The raw data for this image is stored in RGB and about 3.4GB
in size, so for convenience you may wish to load this as a virtual stack
(i.e. one where the slices are loaded from disk as required), convert it
to 8-bit and resave the file first. In any case, I would recommend using
a machine with 2GB of RAM (at the very least) to deal with these files.

To load the files as a virtual stack, go to "" and select the first file
in the sequence, "01.tif". You will be presented with the import dialog,
in which you should make sure that "Use virtual stack" is selected.

![Diadem\_Cerebellar-1.png](Diadem_Cerebellar-1.png
"Diadem_Cerebellar-1.png")

(Note that the number of slices in the directory (34) was automatically
set.) You should now be able to browse through the stack:

![Diadem\_Cerebellar-2.png](Diadem_Cerebellar-2.png
"Diadem_Cerebellar-2.png")

After loading this you need to convert this to 8-bit. You can do this in
any number of ways, and if you're actively working on a tracing task
with this data you will probably want to do this in such a way that
picks out the brown coloured neuronal processes. However, a simple way
just for viewing purposes is to use the  option. (Another option is to
use .) This will produce results like this:

![Diadem\_Cerebellar-3.png](Diadem_Cerebellar-3.png
"Diadem_Cerebellar-3.png")

You can close the original virtual stack now.

It is a good idea to invert this image, since the 3D Viewer will make
the low values of the image more transparent, and Simple Neurite Tracer
assumes that neurons are brighter than their background. So, go to  and
select "Yes" in response to the question about whether to process all 34
images. The results should look like this:

![Diadem\_Cerebellar-4.png](Diadem_Cerebellar-4.png
"Diadem_Cerebellar-4.png")

Before saving this out as a single 862MB stack, it is a good idea to
correct the calibration of the image. The [data set web
page](http://www.diademchallenge.org/cerebellar_climbing_fibers_readme.html)
tells us that the separation between slices is 8.08 pixels. So, if you
bring up the  dialog, then you can correct the voxel depth to be 8.08
times the pixel width:

![Diadem\_Cerebellar-5.png](Diadem_Cerebellar-5.png
"Diadem_Cerebellar-5.png")

Now save this as a single TIFF stack called CF\_1.tif by going to "",
saving it in the directory above the one with the slices, to avoid
confusion.

You can now start the tracer with . This may take some time, since there
is a lot of data to load in to the 3D viewer. The result should look
like this:

![Diadem\_Cerebellar-6.png](Diadem_Cerebellar-6.png
"Diadem_Cerebellar-6.png")

You may wish to adjust the transparency in the 3D viewer by selecting
the image volume (left click on the image in the 3D viewer) and then
going to "":

![Diadem\_Cerebellar-7.png](Diadem_Cerebellar-7.png
"Diadem_Cerebellar-7.png")

Now, to load the traces click on "Load Traces / SWC File" and select
CF\_1.swc. You will be presented with an options box like this:

![Diadem\_Cerebellar-7b.png](Diadem_Cerebellar-7b.png
"Diadem_Cerebellar-7b.png")

Make sure that "Ignore calibration" is selected (as in that screenshot)
and that there is no offset or scale set. Once loaded you should be able
to see the traces as here:

![Diadem\_Cerebellar-8.png](Diadem_Cerebellar-8.png
"Diadem_Cerebellar-8.png")

## Hippocampal CA3 Interneuron

The [Hippocampal CA3
Interneuron](http://www.diademchallenge.org/hippocampal_ca3_Interneuron_readme.html)
data set is difficult to deal with, since even after converting the
stack to 8-bit values, it is still nearly 2GB in size.

As with the other stacks, you should load the image stack using  and
selecting the "Use virtual stack" option:

![Diadem\_Hippocampal\_CA3\_Interneuron-2.png](Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-2.png
"Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-2.png")

That should load in the image data:

![Diadem\_Hippocampal\_CA3\_Interneuron-3.png](Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-3.png
"Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-3.png")

Now convert it to 8-bit with . (The same comments as above regarding
converting to 8-bit apply here as well.)

![Diadem\_Hippocampal\_CA3\_Interneuron-4.png](Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-4.png
"Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-4.png")

... and invert the image with , saying "Yes" to the question about
whether to process all 110 slices:

![Diadem\_Hippocampal\_CA3\_Interneuron-5.png](Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-5.png
"Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-5.png")

Now set the voxel depth to 1.52 times the voxel width, as specified on
the [data set
page](http://www.diademchallenge.org/hippocampal_ca3_Interneuron_readme.html):

![Diadem\_Hippocampal\_CA3\_Interneuron-6.png](Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-6.png
"Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-6.png")

And then I would save this file as a TIFF stack (with ) so that you
don't have to go through these steps again. That will need about 2GB of
disk space, and will only work if your filesystem supports single files
of that size.

If you now start  with its default options you should (eventually\!) see
something like the following:

![Diadem\_Hippocampal\_CA3\_Interneuron-7.png](Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-7.png
"Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-7.png")

Then you can load the SWC files via "Load Traces / SWC file" with these
options:

![Diadem\_Hippocampal\_CA3\_Interneuron-8.png](Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-8.png
"Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-8.png")

(I've unchecked "Replace existing paths" for this data set, since it's
nice to load several SWC files into the tracer at once.) The results of
loading three of the reconstructions, for example, might look like this:

![Diadem\_Hippocampal\_CA3\_Interneuron-9.png](Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-9.png
"Diadem_Hippocampal_CA3_Interneuron-9.png")

## Neuromuscular Projection Fibers

There are a number of caveats regarding these image data and
reconstructions which are [listed on its web
page](http://www.diademchallenge.org/neuromuscular_projection_fibers_readme.html).

These 152 image stacks are in total so large that stitching them
together and dealing with the stitched stack is not likely to be
helpful. Instead, I would suggest that you just stitch together those
images that you need to cover a particular SWC file. Since there are so
many input stacks, I've written a clojure script for Fiji to help
process these, which you can [view and download via
github](http://gist.github.com/508411). On running this script you will
be asked to select a directory - you should select the directory that
contains all of your unpacked image stack directories (probably called
"000", "001", etc.) For each of these directories it will then:

  - Import the sequence of slices
  - Correct the calibration so that the voxel depth is 3.04 times the
    pixel width
  - Write out each stack as a single TIFF stack (e.g. as well as the
    directory "000" you will also have "000.tif"

Finally, the script will output a TileConfiguration.txt file in the same
directory. Supposing one had vast amounts of RAM, this file could be
used unaltered with , as above. However, the file is still useful even
with modest amounts of RAM, since you can copy this file to a new name
and edit out all but a few of the images that are listed there. For
example, here are image stacks 000 to 007 stitched together:

![Neuromuscular-0-7-stitched.png](Neuromuscular-0-7-stitched.png
"Neuromuscular-0-7-stitched.png")

That script may be useful as a basis for a smarter selection of images
to stitch for particular reconstructions.

You should then be able to adjust the SWC import options in order to
import the reconstructions in the correct positions - you will need to
understand the translations described for the reconstructions [on the
web
page](http://www.diademchallenge.org/neuromuscular_projection_fibers_readme.html)
in order to get this right. (I haven't had time to do this accurately
myself yet.)

[Category:Tutorials](Category:Tutorials "wikilink")
