---
autogenerated: true
title: MiToBo
breadcrumb: MiToBo
layout: page
author: test author
categories: Plugins,Related Software,SciJava,Citable
description: test description
---

{% capture maintainer %} Stefan Posch, {% include person
content="MiToBo" %} {% endcapture %}

{% capture author %} Stefan Posch, {% include person content="MiToBo" %}
{% endcapture %}

{% capture source %} {% include github org="mitobo-hub"
repo="mitobo-plugins" %} {% endcapture %} {% include sidebox-right
software='MiToBo' name='MiToBo' logo='![MiToBo-logo.png](MiToBo-logo.png
"MiToBo-logo.png")' maintainer=maintainer author=author source=source
status='' category='[:Category:Plugins](:Category:Plugins "wikilink")'
website='http://www.informatik.uni-halle.de/mitobo/' %}The Microscope
Image Analysis Toolbox MiToBo is a collection of basic and advanced
image processing operators and applications mainly dedicated to
biological and biomedical image data, however, not restricted to these
fields. MiToBo is an extension of [ImageJ](ImageJ "wikilink"), i.e.
MiToBo operators are ready to be directly used as plugins in ImageJ.

To make use of MiToBo's functionality it can be enabled by [toggling the
MiToBo update site](Update_Sites "wikilink").

For further details, see the [MiToBo
website](http://www.informatik.uni-halle.de/mitobo/).

MiToBo is based on the [Alida](Alida "wikilink") framework. MiToBo's
operators are managed by Alida's graphical operator runner. In addition,
and thanks to Alida's built-in graphical workflow editor *Grappa* also
image analysis workflows can easily be designed graphically.

## Publication

  - {% include publication content='MiToBo' %}

[Category:Plugins](Category:Plugins "wikilink") [Category:Related
Software](Category:Related_Software "wikilink")
[Category:SciJava](Category:SciJava "wikilink")
[Category:Citable](Category:Citable "wikilink")
