---
autogenerated: true
title: Transform Virtual Stack Slices
breadcrumb: Transform Virtual Stack Slices
layout: page
author: test author
categories: Plugins
description: test description
---

{| |style="vertical-align:top" | ![Transform Virtual Stack scheme - All
images are transformed based on the XML
files](Transform_Virtual_Stack_scheme.png
"Transform Virtual Stack scheme - All images are transformed based on the XML files")
|}

This plugin takes a sequence of image slices stored in a folder, and
delivers a list of transformed image slices (with enlarged canvas)
applying a list of transforms stored as **.XML** files in another
folder.

This is a **complementary plugin** of [Register Virtual Stack
Slices](Register_Virtual_Stack_Slices "wikilink"). It allows reproducing
the results of [Register Virtual Stack
Slices](Register_Virtual_Stack_Slices "wikilink") by loading the
corresponding transform files (saved by checking the option [ "Save
transforms"](Register_Virtual_Stack_Slices#Save_Transforms "wikilink")
in the main dialog).

## User Manual

**Premises**:

  - **Source folder**: You have a folder with an ordered list of image
    files in it that Fiji can open.
  - Each image represents a slice in a sequence.
  - **Output folder**: You have or create a folder to store the
    resulting virtual stack with the transformed images.
  - **Transform folder**: You have a folder with the transform files
    (from a [Register Virtual Stack
    Slices](Register_Virtual_Stack_Slices "wikilink") execution).
  - **Interpolate**: Toggle the interpolation for the result images.

**Step 1**: launch the "Plugins - Transform - Transform Virtual Stack
Slices" plugin. ![Transform Virtual Stack main
dialog](Main-Dialog-Transform_Virtual_Stack.png
"Transform Virtual Stack main dialog") **Step 2**: choose the source,
output and transform folders:

  - Select a source folder containing the slices, at one slice per image
    file.
  - Select the target folder where resulting transformed slices will be
    automatically stored as TIFF files.
  - Select the transform folder, where the .XML files from a [Register
    Virtual Stack Slices](Register_Virtual_Stack_Slices "wikilink") are
    stored.

**Results**: on success, a virtual stack will open showing all the
transformed images contained in the output folder. The virtual stack can
be closed with no ill effect: images are saved in the output folder.

## API documentation

The latest documentation of the package can be found here:

<https://fiji.sc/javadoc/register_virtual_stack/package-summary.html>

## License

This program is **free software**; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the **GNU General Public License** as published by
the Free Software Foundation (<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.txt>).

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

[Category:Plugins](Category:Plugins "wikilink")
[Category:Transform](Category:Transform "wikilink")
[Category:Registration](Category:Registration "wikilink")
{| |style="vertical-align:top" | ![Transform Virtual Stack scheme - All
images are transformed based on the XML
files](Transform_Virtual_Stack_scheme.png
"Transform Virtual Stack scheme - All images are transformed based on the XML files")
|}

This plugin takes a sequence of image slices stored in a folder, and
delivers a list of transformed image slices (with enlarged canvas)
applying a list of transforms stored as **.XML** files in another
folder.

This is a **complementary plugin** of [Register Virtual Stack
Slices](Register_Virtual_Stack_Slices "wikilink"). It allows reproducing
the results of [Register Virtual Stack
Slices](Register_Virtual_Stack_Slices "wikilink") by loading the
corresponding transform files (saved by checking the option [ "Save
transforms"](Register_Virtual_Stack_Slices#Save_Transforms "wikilink")
in the main dialog).

## User Manual

**Premises**:

  - **Source folder**: You have a folder with an ordered list of image
    files in it that Fiji can open.
  - Each image represents a slice in a sequence.
  - **Output folder**: You have or create a folder to store the
    resulting virtual stack with the transformed images.
  - **Transform folder**: You have a folder with the transform files
    (from a [Register Virtual Stack
    Slices](Register_Virtual_Stack_Slices "wikilink") execution).
  - **Interpolate**: Toggle the interpolation for the result images.

**Step 1**: launch the "Plugins - Transform - Transform Virtual Stack
Slices" plugin. ![Transform Virtual Stack main
dialog](Main-Dialog-Transform_Virtual_Stack.png
"Transform Virtual Stack main dialog") **Step 2**: choose the source,
output and transform folders:

  - Select a source folder containing the slices, at one slice per image
    file.
  - Select the target folder where resulting transformed slices will be
    automatically stored as TIFF files.
  - Select the transform folder, where the .XML files from a [Register
    Virtual Stack Slices](Register_Virtual_Stack_Slices "wikilink") are
    stored.

**Results**: on success, a virtual stack will open showing all the
transformed images contained in the output folder. The virtual stack can
be closed with no ill effect: images are saved in the output folder.

## API documentation

The latest documentation of the package can be found here:

<https://fiji.sc/javadoc/register_virtual_stack/package-summary.html>

## License

This program is **free software**; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the **GNU General Public License** as published by
the Free Software Foundation (<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.txt>).

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

[Category:Plugins](Category:Plugins "wikilink")
[Category:Transform](Category:Transform "wikilink")
[Category:Registration](Category:Registration "wikilink")
